# Eye-TrackerML
 Summer Internship Project. This code utilizes a RandomForestClassifier Machine Learning model to figure out whether a subject's eyes are either roaming or stationary. 
First, I utilize the dlib library to be able to detect faces in a given frame. By using specific landmarks within the dlib package parameter, I am able to focus on specificly 4 aspects of the subjects face: the coordinates of their outer parts of their right and left eyes, and the inner parts of their right and left eyes. After captuing these coordinates for every single frame, I then calculate the Euclidean distance between these coordinates for a given frame "i" and the previous frame, "i-1". I then create a dataframe containing 4 columns which track this Euclidean distance for the 4 categories I am examining (outer left eye, inner left eye, outer right eye, inner right eye). 
To feed the model additional information, I add a couple extra columns to the dataframe: ID and Glasses. ID is to let the model know that the subject being captured in the frame has switched—for example, the ID of my capture may be 1, while the ID of a capture of a co-worker may be 2. Glasses is a binary variable, set to zero if the subject being captured isn't wearning glasses, and 1 if they are. 
The final column added onto the dataframe prior to training the model is Fixed, which is a binary variable where "0" represents a frame in which the eyes of the subject are fixated on the same point as the previous frame, and "1" represents a frame where the eyes of the subject have roamed onto a different point than they were gazing at in the previous frame. I manually look through each frame captured and annotate them to categorize as either "fixed" or "roaming", and then this column in the dataframe is updated accordingly.
Given all this data, I create a ML model to try and predict the value of the Fixed variable. To do so, I implement a RandomForestClassifier model, as it is extremely effective for both regression and classification tasks. I take a standard 80/20 train-test split of the data accumulated, and then compare the models predictions to the actual values. With an 80/20 train test split, the model is roughly 90% accurate in predicting whether the subject being captured is fixated on a single point, or if their eyes are roaming. 
